selene/README.md, before:

Selene
======

This is a Lua library I made for more convenient functional programming. It provides special syntax as well as convenient functions on tables and strings.
###Table of contents
  - [Syntax](#syntax)
    - [Smart self-calling](#smart-self-calling)
    - [Wrapped tables](#wrapped-tables)
      - [What you can do with wrapped tables or strings](#what-you-can-do-with-wrapped-tables-or-strings)
      - [Utility functions for wrapped tables](#utility-functions-for-wrapped-tables)
    - [Lambdas](#lambdas)
      - [Utility functions for wrapped and normal functions](#utility-functions-for-wrapped-and-normal-functions)
    - [Ternary Operators](#ternary-operators)
    - [Foreach](#foreach)
  - [Functions](#functions)
    - [bit32](#bit32)
    - [table](#table)
    - [string](#string)
    - [Wrapped tables](#wrapped-tables-1)
    - [Wrapped strings](#wrapped-strings)

#Syntax
This is a list of the special syntax available in Selene.
###Smart self-calling
A tweak that makes method calls with no parameters more convenient.
Basically, it allows doing this
```lua
local s = "Hello World"
local r = s:reverse
```
Which equates
```lua
local s = "Hello World"
local r = s:reverse()
```
###Wrapped tables
You can use `$(t: table or string)` to turn a table or a string into a wrapped table or string to perform bulk data operations on them. If the table is a list (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`), it will automatically create a list, otherwise it will create a map.
```lua
local t = {"one", "two"}
t = $(t) -- Will create a list
local p = {a="one", b="two"}
p = $(p) -- Will create a map
local s = "Fish"
s = $(s) -- Will create a wrapped string, you can iterate through each character just like you can using a list.
```
If you want to enforce a certain type of wrapped table, you can use `$l()` to create a list and `$s()` to create a wrapped string. If the wrapped table of the specific type cannot be created for some reason, the function will error.

Turning a wrapped table or string back into a normal table or string is quite easy:
```lua
t = t() -- Calling the table like a function turns it back into a normal table
p = p:$ -- This also creates a table again
s = s.$ -- This is the third way of getting back your string or table.
s = tostring(s) -- This is a way of getting back strings from wrapped strings.
```
A note about wrapped strings: If you call `pairs` or `ipairs` with a wrapped string as a parameter, it will iterate through every character in the string.
####What you can do with wrapped tables or strings
See [the functions documentation](#functions) for methods may call on wrapped tables or strings.
There are now three different ways to iterate through the characters of a string:
```lua
for index, char in ipairs($(s)) do
  -- Here, s is being turned into a wrapped string
end
for index, char in string.iter(s) do
  -- Here, string.iter is being used to give a string iterator
end
for index, char in $(s):iter do
  -- Here, the wrapped string's iterator function is being used.
end
```
####Utility functions for wrapped tables
 - `ltype(t: anything):string` This functions works just like `type`, just that it, if it finds a wrapped table, may return `"map"`, `"list"` or `"stringlist"`.
 - `checkType(n:number, t:anything, types:string...)` This function errors when `t` does not match any of the specified types of wrapped tables. `n` is the index of the parameter, used for a more descriptive error message. if no type is specified, it will error if `t` is not a wrapped table.
 - `lpairs(t:wrapped table)` This functions works just like `ipairs` when called with a list or wrapped string and just like `pairs` when called with anything else.
 - `isList(t:wrapped table or table):boolean` This function returns true if the table is either a list (as a wrapped table) or a normal table that can be turned into a list (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`)

###Lambdas
Lambdas are wrapped in `()` brackets and always look like `(<var1> [, var2, ...] -> <operation>)`. Alternatively to the `->` you can also use `=>`.
```lua
local t = {"one", "two"}
t = $(t):filter((s -> s:find("t")))()
-- t should be {"two"} now
local f = (s, r -> s + r) -- f is now a function that, once executed with the parameters s and r, returns the sum of s and r.
```
It will automatically be parsed into a wrapped Lua function, and, if the lambda does not contain any `return`, automatically add a `return` in the front.
####Utility functions for wrapped and normal functions
 - `checkFunc(f:function, parCount:number...)` This function errors if the specified variable does not contain a function or a wrapped function. If it is a wrapped function, it will error if the amount of its parameters does not match any of the numbers given to this function.
 - `parCount(f:function, def:number or nil):number` This function errors if `f` is not a function or a wrapped function. If it is a normal function, it will return `def`. If it is a wrapped function, it will return the amount of its parameters. If it can't for some reason, it will return `def`.
 - `$f(f:function, parCount:number):wrapped function` This functions turns a normal Lua function into a wrapped function with the specified amount of parameters. This could be useful if you want to use `checkFunc` or `parCount` to depend on a specific number of parameters. You can call this wrapped function just like you can call any normal Lua function.

###Ternary Operators
Ternary operators are wrapped in `()` brackets and always look like `(<condition> ? <trueCase> : <falseCase>)`.
```lua
local a = 5
local c = (a >= 5 ? 1 : -1) -- c should be 1 now.
```
If `<condition>` is true, the first case will be returned, otherwise the second one will.
###Foreach
Selene supports alternative syntax for foreach:
```lua
local b = {"one", "two", "three"}
for i,j <- b do
  print(i, j)
end
```
If the table can be iterated through with `ipairs` (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`), it will choose that, otherwise it will choose `pairs`.

#Functions
This is a list of the functions available on wrapped tables or strings as specified [here](#syntax) as well as functions added to native libraries.

###global
 - `checkArg(n:number, obj:anything, types:string...)` This function errors when `obj` does not match any of the specified types. `n` is the index of the parameter, used for a more descriptive error message.

###bit32
Firstly, Selene adds two convenient functions to the `bit32` library (these functions are not available in Lua 5.3+), called fish-or or `for`:
 - `bit32.bfor(n1:number, n2:number, n3:number):number` This functions returns the bitwise fish-or of its operands. A bit will be 1 if two out of three of the operands' bits are 1.
 - `bit32.nfor(n1:anything, n2:anything, n3:anything):boolean` This returns `true` if two out of three of the operands are not `nil` and not `false`

###table
The native `table` library got two new functions:
 - `table.shallowcopy(t:table):table` This will return a copy `t` that contains every entry `t` did contain.
 - `table.flatten(t:table):table` This will collapse one level of inner tables and merge their entries into `t`. `t` needs to be a valid list (every key in the table has to be a number valid for `ipairs`). Inner tables will only get merged if they are lists as well, tables with invalid keys will stay the way they are in the table.
 - `table.range(start:number, stop:number [, step:number]):table` This will create a range of numbers ranging from `start` to `stop`, with a step size of `step` or 1.
 - `table.flip(t:table):table` Swaps every key in the table with its value and returns a new table.
 - `table.zipped(t1:table, t2:table):table` This will merge two tables into one if both have the same length, in the pattern `{{t1[1], t2[1]}, {t1[2], t2[2]}, ...}`

###string
These functions will not work directly called on a string, i.e. `string.drop("Hello", 2)` will work but `("Hello"):drop(2)` will not. For that, use wrapped strings.
`function` may be a Lua function or a wrapped function (for instance a lambda).
 - `string.foreach(s:string, f:function)` This calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters.
 - `string.map(s:string, f:function):list or map` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters, and inserts whatever it returns into a new table, which will then get returned as a list if possible and a map otherwise.
 - `string.filter(s:string, f:function):string` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters, and, if `f` returns `true`, will insert the character into a new string which will get returned, meaning that every character `f` returns `false` on will be removed.
 - `string.contains(val:string):boolean` This returns true if the string contains the string `val`.
 - `string.count(f:function):number` This returns the amount of characters in the string that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `string.exists(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on any of the characters.
 - `string.forall(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on every character in the string.
 - `string.drop(s:string, n:number):string` This function will remove the first `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.dropright(s:string, n:number):string` This function will remove the last `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.dropwhile(s:string, f:function):string` This function will remove the first character of the string as long as `f` returns `true` on that character (or on the index and the character).
 - `string.take(s:string, n:number):string` This function will take the first `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.takeright(s:string, n:number):string` This function will take the last `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.takewhile(s:string, f:function):string` This function will iterate through the characters of the string and add the characters to the returned string as long as `f` returns `true` on the currently checked character (or on the index and the character).
 - `string.slice(s:string, start:number or nil, stop:number or nil [, step:number or nil]):stringlist` This function will slice a specific range of characters out of the string and return it, starting at index `start` and stopping at `stop` with a step size of `step`. `step` must not be 0 but can be negative. `start` will default to `1` if it is `nil` or `0`, `stop` will default to the length of the string. Negative values for `start` or `stop` are interpreted as indexing backwards, from the end of the string.
 - `string.fold(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`.
 - `string.foldleft(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with `m` and that character as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `string.foldright(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`, just that it starts iterating at the end of the string.
 - `string.reduce(s:string, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.reduceleft`.
 - `string.reduceleft(s:string, f:function):anything` This function must not be called with an empty string. If the length of the string is `1`, it will return the string. Otherwise, this function assigns the first character in the string to a local variable m and calls `f` for every other character in the string, with `m` and that character as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `string.reduceright(s:string, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.reduceleft`, just that it starts at the end of the string.
 - `string.split(s:string, sep:string or number or nil):list` This function splits the string whenever it encounters the specified separator, returning a list of every part of the string. If `sep` is a number, it will split the string into chunks of the specified length.
 - `string.iter(s:string)` This functions returns an iterator over the string `s`, so you can iterate through the characters of the string using `for index, char in string.iter(s) do ... end`.

###Wrapped tables
These are the functions you can call on wrapped tables. `$()` represents a wrapped list or map, `$l()` represents a list.
 - `$():concat(sep:string, i:number, j:number):string` This works exactly like `table.concat`.
 - `$():foreach(f:function)` This works exactly like `string.foreach`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():map(f:function):list or map` This works exactly like `string.map`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():filter(f:function):list or map` This works exactly like `string.filter`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list if possible, a map otherwise.
 - `$():fold(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$():foldleft`.
 - `$():foldleft(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():foldright(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$():foldleft`, just that it starts iterating at the end of the list.
 - `$():flip():list or map` Swaps every key in the table with its value and returns a new wrapped table.
 - `$():find(f:function):anything` This returns the first element of the table that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `$():contains(val:anything):boolean` This returns true if the table contains `val`.
 - `$():containskey(key:anything):boolean` This returns true if the table has [key] mapped to any value that is not `nil`.
 - `$():count(f:function):number` This returns the amount of elements in the table that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `$():exists(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on any of the elements.
 - `$():forall(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on every element in the table.
 - `$():shallowcopy()` This works exactly like `table.shallowcopy`.
 - `$l():drop(n:number):list` This function will remove the first `n` entries from the list and return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():dropright(n:number):list` This function will remove the last `n` entries from the list and return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():dropwhile(f:function):list` This works exactly like `string.dropwhile`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():take(n:number):list` This function will take the first `n` entries from the list and return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():takeright(n:number):list` This function will take the last `n` entries from the list and return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():takewhile(f:function):list` This works exactly like `string.takewhile`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():slice(start:number or nil, stop:number or nil [, step:number or nil]):list` This function will slice a specific range of indices out of the list and return it, starting at index `start` and stopping at `stop` with a step size of `step`. `step` must not be 0 but can be negative. `start` will default to `1` if it is `nil` or `0`, `stop` will default to the length of the list. Negative values for `start` or `stop` are interpreted as indexing backwards, from the end of the list.
 - `$l():reduce(f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$l():reduceleft`.
 - `$l():reduceleft(f:function):anything` This function must not be called with an empty list. If the length of the list is `1`, it will return the only value in the list. Otherwise, this function assigns the first entry in the list to a local variable m and calls `f` for every other value in the list, with `m` and that value as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `$l():reduceright(f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$l():reduceleft`, just that it starts at the end of the list.
 - `$l():reverse():list` This function will invert the list so that the last entry will be the first one etc.
 - `$l():flatten():list` This works exactly like `table.flatten`.
 - `$l():zip(other:list or table or function):list` This will merge the other table (which has to be an ipairs-valid list) or list into itself if both lists have the same length, in the pattern `{{t1[1], t2[1]}, {t1[2], t2[2]}, ...}`. If `other` is a function or wrapped function, it will call it once per iteration and merge the returned value in the described pattern.

###Wrapped strings
Wrapped strings or stringslists can mostly be seen as lists and have most of the functions wrapped tables have (including `drop`, `dropwhile` and `reverse`).
Functions they do not have are `concat`, `find`, `flatten`, `zip`, `containskey` and `flip`. All variations of `drop` and `take` will return strings, `filter`, `slice` and `reverse` will return stringlists, and they have two new functions:
 - `$s():split(sep:string or nil):list` This works exactly like `string.split`.
 - `$s():iter()` This works exactly like `string.iter`.

Commit message:

Fixed formatting and added arithmetic shortcuts.

selene/README.md, after:

Selene
======

This is a Lua library I made for more convenient functional programming. It provides special syntax as well as convenient functions on tables and strings.
###Table of contents
  - [Syntax](#syntax)
    - [Smart self-calling](#smart-self-calling)
    - [Arithmetic and Bitwise assignment operators](#arithmetic-and-bitwise-assignment-operators)
    - [Wrapped tables](#wrapped-tables)
      - [What you can do with wrapped tables or strings](#what-you-can-do-with-wrapped-tables-or-strings)
      - [Utility functions for wrapped tables](#utility-functions-for-wrapped-tables)
    - [Lambdas](#lambdas)
      - [Utility functions for wrapped and normal functions](#utility-functions-for-wrapped-and-normal-functions)
    - [Ternary Operators](#ternary-operators)
    - [Foreach](#foreach)
  - [Functions](#functions)
    - [bit32](#bit32)
    - [table](#table)
    - [string](#string)
    - [Wrapped tables](#wrapped-tables-1)
    - [Wrapped strings](#wrapped-strings)

#Syntax
This is a list of the special syntax available in Selene.
###Smart self-calling
A tweak that makes method calls with no parameters more convenient.
Basically, it allows doing this
```lua
local s = "Hello World"
local r = s:reverse
```
Which equates
```lua
local s = "Hello World"
local r = s:reverse()
```
###Arithmetic and Bitwise assignment operators
Selene adds assignment operators for most arithmetic (and, for Lua 5.3 or higher, bitwise) operators.
```lua
a += 4   -- equates 'a = a + 4 '
a -= 4   -- equates 'a = a - 4 '
a *= 4   -- equates 'a = a * 4 '
a /= 4   -- equates 'a = a / 4 '
a //= 4  -- equates 'a = a // 4'
a %= 4   -- equates 'a = a % 4 '
a ^= 4   -- equates 'a = a ^ 4 '
a &= 4   -- equates 'a = a & 4 '
a |= 4   -- equates 'a = a | 4 '
a ~= 4   -- equates 'a = a ~ 4 '
a >>= 4  -- equates 'a = a >> 4'
a <<= 4  -- equates 'a = a << 4'
```
Having multiple operators in one term still works.
```lua
a *= 4 + 7  -- equates 'a = a * 4 + 7' (mind the order of operations)
```
###Wrapped tables
You can use `$(t: table or string)` to turn a table or a string into a wrapped table or string to perform bulk data operations on them. If the table is a list (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`), it will automatically create a list, otherwise it will create a map.
```lua
local t = {"one", "two"}
t = $(t) -- Will create a list
local p = {a="one", b="two"}
p = $(p) -- Will create a map
local s = "Fish"
s = $(s) -- Will create a wrapped string, you can iterate through each character just like you can using a list.
```
If you want to enforce a certain type of wrapped table, you can use `$l()` to create a list and `$s()` to create a wrapped string. If the wrapped table of the specific type cannot be created for some reason, the function will error.

Turning a wrapped table or string back into a normal table or string is quite easy:
```lua
t = t() -- Calling the table like a function turns it back into a normal table
p = p:$ -- This also creates a table again
s = s.$ -- This is the third way of getting back your string or table.
s = tostring(s) -- This is a way of getting back strings from wrapped strings.
```
A note about wrapped strings: If you call `pairs` or `ipairs` with a wrapped string as a parameter, it will iterate through every character in the string.
####What you can do with wrapped tables or strings
See [the functions documentation](#functions) for methods may call on wrapped tables or strings.
There are now three different ways to iterate through the characters of a string:
```lua
for index, char in ipairs($(s)) do
  -- Here, s is being turned into a wrapped string
end
for index, char in string.iter(s) do
  -- Here, string.iter is being used to give a string iterator
end
for index, char in $(s):iter do
  -- Here, the wrapped string's iterator function is being used.
end
```
####Utility functions for wrapped tables
 - `ltype(t: anything):string` This functions works just like `type`, just that it, if it finds a wrapped table, may return `"map"`, `"list"` or `"stringlist"`.
 - `checkType(n:number, t:anything, types:string...)` This function errors when `t` does not match any of the specified types of wrapped tables. `n` is the index of the parameter, used for a more descriptive error message. if no type is specified, it will error if `t` is not a wrapped table.
 - `lpairs(t:wrapped table)` This functions works just like `ipairs` when called with a list or wrapped string and just like `pairs` when called with anything else.
 - `isList(t:wrapped table or table):boolean` This function returns true if the table is either a list (as a wrapped table) or a normal table that can be turned into a list (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`)

###Lambdas
Lambdas are wrapped in `()` brackets and always look like `(<var1> [, var2, ...] -> <operation>)`. Alternatively to the `->` you can also use `=>`.
```lua
local t = {"one", "two"}
t = $(t):filter((s -> s:find("t")))()
-- t should be {"two"} now
local f = (s, r -> s + r) -- f is now a function that, once executed with the parameters s and r, returns the sum of s and r.
```
It will automatically be parsed into a wrapped Lua function, and, if the lambda does not contain any `return`, automatically add a `return` in the front.
####Utility functions for wrapped and normal functions
 - `checkFunc(f:function, parCount:number...)` This function errors if the specified variable does not contain a function or a wrapped function. If it is a wrapped function, it will error if the amount of its parameters does not match any of the numbers given to this function.
 - `parCount(f:function, def:number or nil):number` This function errors if `f` is not a function or a wrapped function. If it is a normal function, it will return `def`. If it is a wrapped function, it will return the amount of its parameters. If it can't for some reason, it will return `def`.
 - `$f(f:function, parCount:number):wrapped function` This functions turns a normal Lua function into a wrapped function with the specified amount of parameters. This could be useful if you want to use `checkFunc` or `parCount` to depend on a specific number of parameters. You can call this wrapped function just like you can call any normal Lua function.

###Ternary Operators
Ternary operators are wrapped in `()` brackets and always look like `(<condition> ? <trueCase> : <falseCase>)`.
```lua
local a = 5
local c = (a >= 5 ? 1 : -1) -- c should be 1 now.
```
If `<condition>` is true, the first case will be returned, otherwise the second one will.
###Foreach
Selene supports alternative syntax for foreach:
```lua
local b = {"one", "two", "three"}
for i,j <- b do
  print(i, j)
end
```
If the table can be iterated through with `ipairs` (i.e. if every key in the table is a number valid for `ipairs`), it will choose that, otherwise it will choose `pairs`.

#Functions
This is a list of the functions available on wrapped tables or strings as specified [here](#syntax) as well as functions added to native libraries.

###global
 - `checkArg(n:number, obj:anything, types:string...)` This function errors when `obj` does not match any of the specified types. `n` is the index of the parameter, used for a more descriptive error message.

###bit32
Firstly, Selene adds two convenient functions to the `bit32` library (these functions are not available in Lua 5.3+), called fish-or or `for`:
 - `bit32.bfor(n1:number, n2:number, n3:number):number` This functions returns the bitwise fish-or of its operands. A bit will be 1 if two out of three of the operands' bits are 1.
 - `bit32.nfor(n1:anything, n2:anything, n3:anything):boolean` This returns `true` if two out of three of the operands are not `nil` and not `false`

###table
The native `table` library got two new functions:
 - `table.shallowcopy(t:table):table` This will return a copy `t` that contains every entry `t` did contain.
 - `table.flatten(t:table):table` This will collapse one level of inner tables and merge their entries into `t`. `t` needs to be a valid list (every key in the table has to be a number valid for `ipairs`). Inner tables will only get merged if they are lists as well, tables with invalid keys will stay the way they are in the table.
 - `table.range(start:number, stop:number [, step:number]):table` This will create a range of numbers ranging from `start` to `stop`, with a step size of `step` or 1.
 - `table.flip(t:table):table` Swaps every key in the table with its value and returns a new table.
 - `table.zipped(t1:table, t2:table):table` This will merge two tables into one if both have the same length, in the pattern `{{t1[1], t2[1]}, {t1[2], t2[2]}, ...}`

###string
These functions will not work directly called on a string, i.e. `string.drop("Hello", 2)` will work but `("Hello"):drop(2)` will not. For that, use wrapped strings.
`function` may be a Lua function or a wrapped function (for instance a lambda).
 - `string.foreach(s:string, f:function)` This calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters.
 - `string.map(s:string, f:function):list or map` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters, and inserts whatever it returns into a new table, which will then get returned as a list if possible and a map otherwise.
 - `string.filter(s:string, f:function):string` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with either the character or the index and the character as parameters, and, if `f` returns `true`, will insert the character into a new string which will get returned, meaning that every character `f` returns `false` on will be removed.
 - `string.contains(val:string):boolean` This returns true if the string contains the string `val`.
 - `string.count(f:function):number` This returns the amount of characters in the string that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `string.exists(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on any of the characters.
 - `string.forall(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on every character in the string.
 - `string.drop(s:string, n:number):string` This function will remove the first `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.dropright(s:string, n:number):string` This function will remove the last `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.dropwhile(s:string, f:function):string` This function will remove the first character of the string as long as `f` returns `true` on that character (or on the index and the character).
 - `string.take(s:string, n:number):string` This function will take the first `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.takeright(s:string, n:number):string` This function will take the last `n` characters from the string and return the new string.
 - `string.takewhile(s:string, f:function):string` This function will iterate through the characters of the string and add the characters to the returned string as long as `f` returns `true` on the currently checked character (or on the index and the character).
 - `string.slice(s:string, start:number or nil, stop:number or nil [, step:number or nil]):stringlist` This function will slice a specific range of characters out of the string and return it, starting at index `start` and stopping at `stop` with a step size of `step`. `step` must not be 0 but can be negative. `start` will default to `1` if it is `nil` or `0`, `stop` will default to the length of the string. Negative values for `start` or `stop` are interpreted as indexing backwards, from the end of the string.
 - `string.fold(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`.
 - `string.foldleft(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This function calls `f` once for every character in the string, with `m` and that character as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `string.foldright(s:string, m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`, just that it starts iterating at the end of the string.
 - `string.reduce(s:string, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.reduceleft`.
 - `string.reduceleft(s:string, f:function):anything` This function must not be called with an empty string. If the length of the string is `1`, it will return the string. Otherwise, this function assigns the first character in the string to a local variable m and calls `f` for every other character in the string, with `m` and that character as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `string.reduceright(s:string, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.reduceleft`, just that it starts at the end of the string.
 - `string.split(s:string, sep:string or number or nil):list` This function splits the string whenever it encounters the specified separator, returning a list of every part of the string. If `sep` is a number, it will split the string into chunks of the specified length.
 - `string.iter(s:string)` This functions returns an iterator over the string `s`, so you can iterate through the characters of the string using `for index, char in string.iter(s) do ... end`.

###Wrapped tables
These are the functions you can call on wrapped tables. `$()` represents a wrapped list or map, `$l()` represents a list.
 - `$():concat(sep:string, i:number, j:number):string` This works exactly like `table.concat`.
 - `$():foreach(f:function)` This works exactly like `string.foreach`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():map(f:function):list or map` This works exactly like `string.map`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():filter(f:function):list or map` This works exactly like `string.filter`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list if possible, a map otherwise.
 - `$():fold(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$():foldleft`.
 - `$():foldleft(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `string.foldleft`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table.
 - `$():foldright(m:anything, f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$():foldleft`, just that it starts iterating at the end of the list.
 - `$():flip():list or map` Swaps every key in the table with its value and returns a new wrapped table.
 - `$():find(f:function):anything` This returns the first element of the table that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `$():contains(val:anything):boolean` This returns true if the table contains `val`.
 - `$():containskey(key:anything):boolean` This returns true if the table has [key] mapped to any value that is not `nil`.
 - `$():count(f:function):number` This returns the amount of elements in the table that `f` returns `true` on.
 - `$():exists(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on any of the elements.
 - `$():forall(f:function):boolean` This returns true if `f` returns `true` on every element in the table.
 - `$():shallowcopy()` This works exactly like `table.shallowcopy`.
 - `$l():drop(n:number):list` This function will remove the first `n` entries from the list and return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():dropright(n:number):list` This function will remove the last `n` entries from the list and return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():dropwhile(f:function):list` This works exactly like `string.dropwhile`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list with the dropped entries.
 - `$l():take(n:number):list` This function will take the first `n` entries from the list and return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():takeright(n:number):list` This function will take the last `n` entries from the list and return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():takewhile(f:function):list` This works exactly like `string.takewhile`, just that it will iterate through each key/value pair in the table and will return a list with the taken entries.
 - `$l():slice(start:number or nil, stop:number or nil [, step:number or nil]):list` This function will slice a specific range of indices out of the list and return it, starting at index `start` and stopping at `stop` with a step size of `step`. `step` must not be 0 but can be negative. `start` will default to `1` if it is `nil` or `0`, `stop` will default to the length of the list. Negative values for `start` or `stop` are interpreted as indexing backwards, from the end of the list.
 - `$l():reduce(f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$l():reduceleft`.
 - `$l():reduceleft(f:function):anything` This function must not be called with an empty list. If the length of the list is `1`, it will return the only value in the list. Otherwise, this function assigns the first entry in the list to a local variable m and calls `f` for every other value in the list, with `m` and that value as parameters. The value which `f` returns will then be assigned to `m` for the next iteration. Returns the final value of `m`.
 - `$l():reduceright(f:function):anything` This works exactly like `$l():reduceleft`, just that it starts at the end of the list.
 - `$l():reverse():list` This function will invert the list so that the last entry will be the first one etc.
 - `$l():flatten():list` This works exactly like `table.flatten`.
 - `$l():zip(other:list or table or function):list` This will merge the other table (which has to be an ipairs-valid list) or list into itself if both lists have the same length, in the pattern `{{t1[1], t2[1]}, {t1[2], t2[2]}, ...}`. If `other` is a function or wrapped function, it will call it once per iteration and merge the returned value in the described pattern.

###Wrapped strings
Wrapped strings or stringslists can mostly be seen as lists and have most of the functions wrapped tables have (including `drop`, `dropwhile` and `reverse`).
Functions they do not have are `concat`, `find`, `flatten`, `zip`, `containskey` and `flip`. All variations of `drop` and `take` will return strings, `filter`, `slice` and `reverse` will return stringlists, and they have two new functions:
 - `$s():split(sep:string or nil):list` This works exactly like `string.split`.
 - `$s():iter()` This works exactly like `string.iter`.
